# bddapitestlocation
Appgate automation challenge

## Introduction 🚀

Automation made for a business challenge, with API call to obtain location information by coordinates.

## Scenarios

Call an API, use the Get method to get the location information.

## Prerequisites to run 📋

Java version 1.8, update 151 or higher and JDK (set of environment variables).
Eclipse IDE or IntelliJ IDEA (version 2018.3 or higher).
Gradle version 5.6.3 or higher (set of environment variables).
Cucumber for Java Plugin (updated version).
Gherkin plugin (updated version).

## Installation 🔧

To clone this repository locally, the following command must be executed: git clone https://github.com/HugoCaVe/bddapitestlocation
Import the project from Eclipse or IntelliJ IDE under the structure of an existing Gradle project.
Configure the JRE system library with JavaSE-1.8.

## Compile the project and generate Wrapper 🔨

To build the project you must run the command: gradle clean build -x test

## Command for execution 💻

The project can be executed from the console with the following command: gradle clean test aggregate

## Project structure 🚧

### src/main/java/com/scp/apilocation/
### + exceptions
    Classes that catch custom exceptions when automation fails and cannot find an expected field.
    
### + conf
    Classes with which session variables are stored
### + models
    Classes with which the data models are built using the builder pattern.
### + tasks
    Classes that perform high-level actions, enter data into a form, etc.
### + utils
    Classes that contain the information of the constants
    
### src/test/java/com/scp/apilocation/
### + runners
    Classes to run automation with the scenarios indicated in the feature.
### + stepdefinitions
    Classes that are the entry point of the feature to translate from Gherkin language to machine language and thus allow the execution of automation.
    
### + features
    The project features are found.
    
### + evidences
    Summary of the test report generated by Serenity
    
## Built with 🛠

Automation was developed with:

BDD - Development strategy
Screenplay
Gradle - Dependency manager
Cucumber - Framework to automate BDD tests
Serenity BDD - Open source library for report generation
Gherkin - Business Readable DSL Language (Business-readable domain specific language)

## Versioning 📌

Git was used for version control, applying TBD 🔀

## Authors 👨

Hugo Cardenas - hugolp8@gmail.com
